>> Burke Holland: So let's talk
about customizing the editor, first,
I want to talk to you about themes.
There is a very exciting theme
happening amongst developers,
and it's a trend towards dark themes.
You may have heard the dark
themes are better for your eyes,
has anybody heard that?
Nobody's heard that?
Okay, good because it's not true.
>> Speaker 2: It's not true?
>> Burke Holland: It's not true.
Dark themes are anesthetic, so
they look nice, and they're trendy.
Which is why we're getting dark mode
added to just about everything.
But the truth of the matter is if you want
a theme that's best for your eyes for
reading comprehension.
Dark text on a light background, is best.
Now there is some
conjecture about whether or
not a dark theme is better for
your eyes late at night.
But no screen is good for
your eyes late at night,
go to bed, work on the code in the AM.
But what I'm gonna do is show you some
of my favorite light themes because I'm
the last person alive using a light theme.
So we're gonna look at my
favorite light themes, and
then we're going to look at
some dark themes if you must.
And then we're gonna
look at some fun themes.
So let's look at some of
my favorite light themes.
To change themes, and I've included most
of these themes in this extension pack.
You're gonna command palette,
which is command or control-shift-P.
And Preferences, Color Theme, and
one of my favorites is called HopLight.
This is HopLight, and
let me open a code file here so
we can see what that might look like.
So you can see all of the code here and
the different colors.
And this probably looks pretty washed-out
on that screen, but there you go.
I like this view a lot, I think that
HopLight has some really nice colors,
it's my favorite light theme.
Another one that I use a lot is called
Night Owl Light, this one here,
this one also looks really, really good.
It's got very soft colors,
I'm a big fan of this.
Let's do another theme,
another one is one called Noctis, and
we're going to talk about Noctis and
dark themes too.
But you can have your VS code look
like a post-it note, if you want to.
If you are a big fan of soft
purples this is a good one.
I think Hibernus is quite interesting,
so some good light themes in there.
And then there's one called Men, so
there's a Men Dark and Men Light.
This is Men light,
this is extremely minimalist.
So if you watched that documentary on
Netflix, the minimalist documentary.
Anybody see that minimalist
documentary on Netflix?
Nobody saw it?
It's quite good.
My wife came to me afterwards and said,
hey, why do we have so many spoons?
I'm like cuz there's five people in
the house, we need these spoons,
don't get rid of the spoons.
But if you're minimalist and you only
wanna own one spoon this theme is for
you, this is the Men theme.
Okay, let's look at some dark themes.
We got a couple, probably the most
popular is called Night Owl,
let's see here, there we go.
This is a high contrast theme,
so it's extremely accessible.
It probably looks really
good on the projector and
right about now my argument about
light themes isn't holding up so well.
But this theme was made by Sarah Drasner,
it looks amazing.
If I was gonna use dark theme,
this would be the one.
The other theme that you might
wanna look at is called Cobalt2, so
we'll look at that one.
There is some idea that a very
bright yellow text on a dark blue
background is also best for
reading comprehension.
Although there's no WIRED magazine
article to validate that, so
I cannot I can't say
whether that's true or not.
We'll need a very mainstream tech article
in order to know for sure if that's true.
But this one does a good job of
implementing that theme without it looking
too gaudy.
Because bright yellow text
usually looks pretty gaudy.
And then we had Noctis
which we already looked at.
And there's another one called Dracula,
which I don't think I installed, but
let's go ahead.
You can install new themes, just so
everybody could see how I did that.
Let's go back, Preferences, Color Theme,
and then if you are looking for
one that's not there, or
you scroll down to the bottom.
There's Install Additional Color Themes,
and just look for Dracula Official,
we'll install that.
And then we've got two,
Dracula, and Dracula Soft.
But there we go, it's a popular theme,
it's got two million plus downloads,
so it's doing all right.
So those are some of my favorite
themes for dark and light.
However, you are an individual and
you need to stand out.
So if you would like to stand out,
I have some options for you.
The first one is some people really
like Slack, they like it a lot.
There is a theme for Slack.
>> Burke Holland: So if you can't get
enough Slack, you can put Slack right in
your VS Code, and
then it's like you never have to leave.
You can just not be productive for
the rest of your life.
Now there's another theme for
people who miss the old days,
anybody ever use Windows 95?
Okay, listen, I got one for
you, check this out.
There's one called Windows 95.
That's a good one,
Winter Is Coming is a good one, too.
So there's one called win95
that you can check out, oops.
So let's install this one,
there you go, so
all of VS code can look like Windows
95 if you wanna roll that way.
Hey, listen, I'm not here to
tell you how to live your life.
And then there's another
one called Hot Dog, yeah,
very good one, so let's look at Hot Dog.
Is it Hot Dog?
I think it's HotDogStand, yeah,
there we go, so we'll install that and
that'sHotDogStand.
Obviously, you want your editor to
look like that, who doesn't want that?
Everybody wants that, and
then Mark sent me one last night,
what was it called, Mark?
>> Mark: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Burke Holland: Synth?
>> Mark: Wave.
>> Burke Holland: Synthwave, that's right,
which kinda looks like the 80s and
I'm not gonna lie, I kinda like this.
I don't hate it, I'm kind of a fan.
What did code files look like?
Let's take a look.
It's not too bad, so
that's Synthwave theme as well.
So you have those options there for
changing your themes.
Now when we talk about themes, and
let's get back to a light theme since
we want to actually be productive.
Let's see, where is Hop Light?
Hop Light, there we go.
We have color themes in VS code,
and we also have icon themes.
Icon themes control the icons that
are on the left-hand side here.
Out of the box,
you get icons that look like like this,
you can change these by
installing new icon themes.
So I've given you two in the Extension
Pack, one is called Material Icons.
So let's look at that we can just search
for Icon, Preferences, File Icon,
Theme, and switch over to Material icons.
And then you can see that our
icons have changed quite a bit.
I like this one a lot because it changes
folder colors depending on the types of
files that are in the folder,
the name of the folder.
See how it says routes and it's got
a green folder with a little arrow on it?
It's just very good for quickly providing
cognition around what's in your project.
Another really cool thing about this is,
let's do a new file here,
it's called this index.
Anybody ever used Jade or Pug?
It's a templateing language
that goes with Express.
So if you do have Pug,
look, look, y'all, come on,
I mean seriously,
how can you not love this?
So you get a pug file
right in your editor.
Listen, it's the little things.
There is also the fact that Material
icons is really made for VS code.
So it recognizes things like
multiple workspaces, and
you'll see this later on if
you're using multiple icons.
It will actually denote multiple
workspaces with circles instead of
folders.
Otherwise everything looks like a folder,
and
you can't tell that you're in
multiple projects in a workspace.
So I would highly recommend Material
icons, so would like 20 million people.
I don't even know how
many downloads it has.
Now again though,
if you are the kind of person who thinks
that you should only have one spoon.
Then there is a file icon theme for
you, and it's called Chalice icons.
So let's look for
that Chalice, Chalice icons?
How do you spell Chalice?
There we go, so let's install this and
go to Chalice and then we'll go back and
look at our Explorer.
And you can see it is extremely
minimalist, so just folders and
very minimal icons.
But some people like this, and that's
fine Chalice icon themes is for you.
So between color themes and
icon themes, we've got you good to go.